DOCS-6092 Add simple webhook guide (#889)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/integrations/webhooks/create-a-webhook.mdx

---
title: Create a Clerk webhook in your Next.js application
description: Learn how to create a Clerk webhook with Svix.
---

# Create a Clerk webhook in your Next.js application

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Clerk + Next.js application",
      link: "https://clerk.com/docs/quickstarts/nextjs"
    }
  ]}
>
- Listen for an event in the Clerk Dashboard
- Create a webhook handler that

>   - uses Svix to verify the webhook signature

Reviewer: The two indented bullet point look really strange in the preview. A check mark and bullet.

Author: I brought it up to Brad in the #proj-docs-redesign channel: https://clerkinc.slack.com/archives/C06CA0JUZ8D/p1714489946533379

  - receives the webhook's payload
- Test the webhook locally using ngrok and the Clerk Dashboard
- Add logic to your application to trigger the webhook
</TutorialHero>

In this guide, you will learn how to create a Clerk webhook in your Next.js application. You will listen for the `user.updated` event by creating a webhook endpoint in the Clerk Dashboard, creating a webhook handler in your Next.js application, and testing the webhook locally using ngrok and the Clerk Dashboard.

This guide can be adapted to listen for any Clerk event.

## Set up ngrok

To test a webhook locally, you will need to expose your local server to the internet. For this guide, you will use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

1. Go to the [ngrok website](https://ngrok.com/) and create an account.
2. Once you have made it to the [ngrok dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/setup/macos), in navigation sidebar, select [**Domains**](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/cloud-edge/domains).
3. Select **Create domain**.
4. ngrok will generate a free, non-ephemeral domain for you and a command to start a tunnel with that domain. The command should look something like this:

> `ngrok http --domain=fawn-two-nominally.ngrok-free.app 80`

Reviewer: Just make sure this edited and not your URL to avoid someone being silly and trying to use it.

Author: yes I edited it :~)

> `ngrok http --domain=fawn-two-nominally.ngrok-free.app 80`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ngrok http --domain=fawn-two-nominally.ngrok-free.app 3000`
```

> This command will start a tunnel from `https://fawn-one-nominally.ngrok-free.app` to your local server on port 80.

Reviewer: I would delete this item, and just use 3000 from the jump. Maybe add a 'you can specify a different port if your app runs on another port, or if you wish to use ngrok with another application and service'

> 5. Change the port number to whatever your server is running on. For this guide, change it to 3000 and then run the command in your terminal.

Reviewer: Bullets 5 and 6 didn't render on new lines for me. Might be a one time issues, but just check they are new lines for you.

Author: Here's what I see in the deploy preview

<img width="751" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-30 at 12 15 51" src="https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/98043211/85bf67c5-d927-4ff2-be9b-cc964cd9585a">

      link: "https://clerk.com/docs/quickstarts/nextjs"
    }
  ]}
>
- Listen for an event in the Clerk Dashboard
- Create a webhook handler that
  - uses Svix to verify the webhook signature
  - receives the webhook's payload
- Test the webhook locally using ngrok and the Clerk Dashboard
- Add logic to your application to trigger the webhook
</TutorialHero>

In this guide, you will learn how to create a Clerk webhook in your Next.js application. You will listen for the `user.updated` event by creating a webhook endpoint in the Clerk Dashboard, creating a webhook handler in your Next.js application, and testing the webhook locally using ngrok and the Clerk Dashboard.

This guide can be adapted to listen for any Clerk event.

## Set up ngrok

To test a webhook locally, you will need to expose your local server to the internet. For this guide, you will use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

1. Go to the [ngrok website](https://ngrok.com/) and create an account.
2. Once you have made it to the [ngrok dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/get-started/setup/macos), in the **Installation** section, follow the instructions to install ngrok on your machine.

> 3. To deploy your local server to the internet, run the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer: Suggest to use smee, or expand this for the single non-changing ngrok URL

`ngrok http http://localhost:3000`

4. In your terminal, ngrok should display a **Forwarding** URL that looks something like `https://fb3f-2603-1700-2458-3410-a006-dc38-e9d6-1275.ngrok-free.app/`. Copy this URL.

## Create an endpoint in the Clerk Dashboard

To create a webhook endpoint, you must provide the **Endpoint URL** and then choose the events you want to listen to. For this guide, you will listen to the `user.updated` event.

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=webhooks).
2. In the navigation sidenav, select **Webhooks**.
3. Select the **Add Endpoint** button.
4. In the **Endpoint URL** field, paste the ngrok URL you copied earlier followed by `/api/webhooks`. This is the endpoint that you will later create, that Svix will send the webhook payload to. The full URL should look something like `https://fb3f-2603-1700-2458-3410-a006-dc38-e9d6-1275.ngrok-free.app/api/webhooks`.
5. In the **Message Filtering** section, select the `user.updated` event.
6. Select the **Create** button.
7. You will be redirected to your endpoint's settings page. Leave this page open.

> ## Add your signing secret to your `.env` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add your signing secret to your `.env.local` file
```
I believe we are still mostly suggesting `.env.local` for Next, hence this suggestion for consistency.

> To verify the webhook payload, you will need your endpoint's signing secret. However, you do not want to expose this secret in your codebase, so you will store it in a `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the webhook payload, you will need your endpoint's signing secret. However, you do not want to expose this secret in your codebase, so you will want to provide it as an environment variable. In local development, this can be done by storing the secret in the `.env.local` file.
```

Minor adjustment, as `.env` usually only applies to development. Env vars are handled diferrently in production in most cases.

Author: good catch!

1. On the endpoint's settings page, copy the **Signing Secret**. It should be on the right hand side of the page with an eye icon next to it.
2. In your project's root directory, you should have an `.env.local` file that includes your Clerk API keys. Here, assign your signing secret to `WEBHOOK_SECRET`. Your file should look something like this:

<InjectKeys>

```sh filename=".env.local"
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY={{pub_key}}
CLERK_SECRET_KEY={{secret}}
WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_123
```

</InjectKeys>

## Install `svix`

You will use [`svix`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svix) to verify the webhook signature. Install it by running the following command in your terminal:

<CodeBlockTabs type="installer" options={["npm", "yarn", "pnpm"]}>
  ```bash filename="terminal"
  npm install svix
  ```

```bash filename="terminal"
yarn add svix
```

```bash filename="terminal"
pnpm add svix
```

</CodeBlockTabs>

## Create a webhook handler

Create a Route Handler that uses `svix` to verify the webhook signature and that receives the webhook's payload.

> For the sake of this guide, you will only log the payload to the console. In a real world application, you would use the payload to trigger some action. For example, you are listening for the `user.updated` event, so you could display a notification to all users in the application that a user was just updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of this guide, you will only log the payload to the console. In a real world application, you would use the payload to trigger some action. For example, you are listening for the `user.updated` event, so you could perform a database `update` or `upsert` to update the user's details.
```

Not a required change, but probably reflective of the most common use case for user.updated.

  }

  // Get the headers
  const svix_id = req.headers["svix-id"] as string;
  const svix_timestamp = req.headers["svix-timestamp"] as string;
  const svix_signature = req.headers["svix-signature"] as string;

  // If there are no headers, error out
  if (!svix_id || !svix_timestamp || !svix_signature) {
    return res.status(400).json({ error: 'Error occured -- no svix headers' })
  }

  console.log('headers', req.headers, svix_id, svix_signature, svix_timestamp)
  // Get the body
  const body = (await buffer(req)).toString()

  // Create a new Svix instance with your secret.
  const wh = new Webhook(WEBHOOK_SECRET);

  let evt: WebhookEvent

  // Verify the payload with the headers
  try {
    evt = wh.verify(body, {
      "svix-id": svix_id,
      "svix-timestamp": svix_timestamp,
      "svix-signature": svix_signature,
    }) as WebhookEvent
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('Error verifying webhook:', err);
    return res.status(400).json({ 'Error': err })
  }

  // Do something with the payload
  // For this guide, you simply log the payload to the console
  const { id } = evt.data;
  const eventType = evt.type;

>   console.log(`Webhook with and ID of ${id} and type of ${eventType}`)
>   console.log('Webhook body:', body)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  console.log(`Webhook with and ID of ${id} and type of ${eventType}`)
  if (evt.type === 'user.updated') {
    console.log('Data from user.updated webhook:', evt.data)
  }

```

This will scope the full logging to only the user.updated event, which is what's being used in the guide. It will also point customers in the right direction TypeScript as anything in the `if()` will now correctly infer the appropriate properties.

  return res.status(200).json({ response: 'Success' })
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Add your endpoint to Middleware

Your Route Handler must be made public or ignored by Middleware to allow the request to succeed - otherwise it will redirect to sign in like any other protected route. The following example will make any webhooks created under `/api/webhooks/` public. See [authMiddleware](/docs/references/nextjs/auth-middleware) for more information.

```tsx filename="middleware.tsx" {4}
import { authMiddleware } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default authMiddleware({

>   publicRoutes: ["/api/webhooks(.*)"],

Reviewer: If the `authMiddleware()` example remains, I would just suggest using `ignoredRoutes()` here. There is nothing gained with `publicRoutes()`.

});

export const config = {

>   matcher: ["/((?!.+\\.[\\w]+$|_next).*)", "/", "/(api|trpc)(.*)"],

Reviewer 2: Don't we ignore all api routes with the last matcher here?

Reviewer: No, we still match on all.

I would suggest revising this for `clerkMiddleware()` (where no check/rule should be applied, leaving it public) or both options should be shown.

};
```

## Test your webhook

1. Start your Next.js server.
2. On your endpoint's settings page in the Clerk Dashboard, select the **Testing** tab.
3. In the **Select event** dropdown, select `user.updated`.
4. Select the **Send Example** button.
5. Below that section, in the **Message Attempts** section, you should see a successful attempt with a status of `200`.

### Message failed

If the message failed:

1. Select the message.
2. Scroll down to the **Webhook Attempts** section.
3. Select the arrow icon the left side.
4. Investigate the error. Your solution is going to depend on the error message.

> ## Add logic for updating a user

Reviewer: I think this section is unneeded. Updating a user in the Dashboard, or via the `<UserProfile />` will trigger `user.updated` and reduce complexity. I would suggest dropping this section in lieu of the next suggestion.

If this remains in the guide, then one of the two following things should happen:

- the code example should include a form to change the name
- the triggering section should mention that the code needs to be edited to change the name for subsequent tests

    await user
      .update({
        firstName: "Test",
      })
      .then(() => {
        console.log(user.firstName);
      })
      .catch((error) => console.log(error.errors));
  };

  return (
    <div className="h-screen">
      <UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/" />

      <p>user.firstName: {user?.firstName}</p>

      <button onClick={updateUser}>Update user</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

```jsx filename="/src/pages/index.tsx"
import { UserButton, useUser } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  const { user, isLoaded } = useUser();

  if (!isLoaded) {
    // Handle loading state however you like
    return null;
  }

  if (!user) return null;

  const updateUser = async () => {
    await user
      .update({
        firstName: "Test",
      })
      .then(() => {
        console.log(user.firstName);
      })
      .catch((error) => console.log(error.errors));
  };

  return (
    <div className="h-screen">
      <header>
        <UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/" />
      </header>

      <p>user.firstName: {user?.firstName}</p>

      <button onClick={updateUser}>Update user</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Trigger your webhook

> To trigger the `user.updated` event, navigate to your application's homepage and select the **Update user** button. This will update the user's first name to `Test` and trigger the webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To trigger the `user.updated` event you can do one of two things to trigger the user.updated webhook.

1. You and edit your user in the Dashboard.
2. You can use the `<UserProfile />` component to edit your profile.

```

You should be able to see the webhook's payload logged to your terminal. You can also check the Clerk Dashboard to see the webhook attempt, the same way you did when [testing the webhook](#test-your-webhook).

> If the webhook failed, check the console of your application to see if the `updateUser()` method failed. If it did, you can debug the error message to see what went wrong. If it succeeded, you can [check the Clerk Dashboard to investigate why the webhook attempt failed](#message-failed).

Reviewer: If the previous changes were removed, this can be removed

  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Clerk + Next.js application",
      link: "https://clerk.com/docs/quickstarts/nextjs"
    }
  ]}
>
- Listen for an event in the Clerk Dashboard
- Create a webhook handler that
  - uses Svix to verify the webhook signature
  - receives the webhook's payload
- Test the webhook locally using ngrok and the Clerk Dashboard
- Add logic to your application to trigger the webhook
</TutorialHero>

# Create a Clerk webhook using Svix

Clerk is a powerful tool for managing user authentication and authorization, and Svix is a webhook delivery service that makes it easy to send and receive webhooks securely. By combining Clerk and Svix, you can create a webhook that will notify your application whenever a Clerk event happens, such as a user or organization being created.

In this guide, you will learn how to create a Clerk webhook using Svix. You will listen for the `user.updated` event by creating a webhook endpoint in the Clerk Dashboard, creating a webhook handler in your Next.js application, and testing the webhook locally using ngrok and the Clerk Dashboard.

This guide can be adapted to listen for any Clerk event.

## Set up ngrok

> To test a webhook locally, you will need to expose your local server to the internet. For this guide, you will use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

Author: I just used it to make the guide... and it's also being used in our "sync data to your backend" guide, and I think might also be recommended in roy's upcoming "debug your webhook" guide. 

do you want us to change it in all of these places?

> To test a webhook locally, you will need to expose your local server to the internet. For this guide, you will use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

Reviewer 2: I guess we can leave it, but I tested it when opening up a local server for twilio webhooks and it crashed and burned. Maybe something was just weird on my side. Still prefer smee though, its easier and less setup 😈

> To test a webhook locally, you will need to expose your local server to the internet. For this guide, you will use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

Reviewer: I mention ngrok, localtunnel and cloudflare tunnel (I think). All of these are more generic tunneling tools that can and are used for more than just webhooks. smee appears to be specific to webhooks though.

Does smee provide a non-ephermal URL? If so, then I would strongly consider it.

Otherwise I would strongly suggest this guide use the single, free non-ephermal URL you can get from ngrok. Ngrok Dashboard -> Cloudl Edge -> Domains -> New Domain. Its akin to a Vercel preview domain, but doesn't change. This removes the need to constantly update your Clerk Dashboard if you restart ngrok/your computer.

  console.log('Webhook body:', body)

  return res.status(200).json({ response: 'Success' })
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Add your endpoint to Middleware

Your Route Handler must be made public or ignored by Middleware to allow the request to succeed. The following example will make any webhooks created under `/api/webhooks/` public. See [authMiddleware](/docs/references/nextjs/auth-middleware) for more information.

```tsx filename="middleware.tsx" {4}
import { authMiddleware } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default authMiddleware({
  publicRoutes: ["/api/webhooks(.*)"],
});

export const config = {
  matcher: ["/((?!.+\\.[\\w]+$|_next).*)", "/", "/(api|trpc)(.*)"],
};
```

## Test your webhook

1. Start your Next.js server.
2. On your endpoint's settings page in the Clerk Dashboard, select the **Testing** tab.
3. In the **Select event** dropdown, select `user.updated`.
4. Select the **Send Example** button.
5. Below that section, in the **Message Attempts** section, you should see a successful attempt with a status of `200`.

### Message failed

If the message failed:

1. Select the message.
2. Scroll down to the **Webhook Attempts** section.
3. Select the arrow icon the left side.

> 4. Investigate the error. Your solution is going to depend on the error message. If you are having trouble debugging, reach out to [Clerk support](https://clerk.com/support).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Investigate the error. Your solution is going to depend on the error message.
```

I don't wanna encourage people to go to support for webhook issues. 99% of webhook issues are user problems that have nothing to do with Clerk, like typo'd URLs, or errors in the logic with the API endpoint they are hitting that has nothing to do with Clerk.

Author: that's true - I can link to the "Debug your webhook" guide instead whenever it is ready

## Add logic for updating a user

Before, you were using the Clerk Dashboard to *test* what would happen if a `user.updated` event occurred.

Now, you can add logic to your application for this event to actually be able to occur.

<Callout type="warning">

>   You may need to enable the **Name** setting. It can be found in the the Clerk Dashboard under User & Authentication > Email, Phone, Username > [Personal information](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For this example to work correctly, you may need to enable the **Name** setting. It can be found in the the Clerk Dashboard under User & Authentication > Email, Phone, Username > [Personal information](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username).
```
